# **Summary of Optimized HDAC11 Inhibitor with Anti-Neuroblastoma Activity , Baselious, F., *et al*. (2024)**
## Authors:
         Hanna (@slack)
         BigWils (@slack)
         DerleenM (@slack)
## Background         
Histone deacetylases (HDACs) play a crucial role in cellular homeostasis
by regulating gene expression through the removal of acetyl groups from
histone lysine residues, resulting in chromatin condensation and
transcriptional suppression. This process is essential for controlling
cell proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis. However,
dysregulation of HDAC activity has been implicated in various cancers,
promoting tumorigenesis through unchecked cell division and survival

HDAC inhibitors (HDACis) have emerged as promising therapeutic agents in
cancer treatment. These compounds work by reactivating tumor suppressor
genes, inducing cancer cell apoptosis, and inhibiting metastasis. Among
the HDAC family, HDAC11, the sole member of class IV, has gained
increasing attention for its involvement in cancer pathways. Selective
inhibition of HDAC11 has shown potential in targeting various
carcinomas, including neuroblastoma (Baselious et al., 2024).

Recent advancements in computational modeling, such as AlphaFold, have
significantly enhanced the drug discovery process by facilitating the
design of selective HDAC11 inhibitors (Baselious et al., 2024). These
developments underscore the therapeutic promise of HDAC inhibition in
cancer treatment and highlight the potential of targeted approaches in
addressing specific HDAC-mediated oncogenic processes.

## References:

Baselious, F., et al. (2024). Utilization of an optimized AlphaFold
protein model for structure-based design of a selective HDAC11 inhibitor
with anti-neuroblastoma activity. Archiv der Pharmazie.
